ESQL: Known issue for OOMs for queries with wide field/index patterns (#112930)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/release-notes/8.15.0.asciidoc

`xpack.security.authc.realms.*.files.role_mapping` configuration option. As a workaround, custom role mappings
can be configured using the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/security-api-put-role-mapping.html[REST API] (issue: {es-issue}112503[#112503])

> * ES|QL queries can cause nodes to crash due to Out Of Memory errors under some circumstances when there are many indices matching the pattern,
> many conflicting field mappings in those indices, and many of those fields are kept in the request. Lower heap proportional to all of that
> makes it worse. (issue: {es-issue}111964[#111964], {es-issue}111358[#111358]).
> Either upgrade to 8.15.2 upon release, or else follow the recommendation in the manual to
> [disable ES|QL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/esql-kibana.html#esql-kibana-enable) queries.
> You can also reduce the likelihood of users triggering the issue by changing the default data view in Discover to a smaller set of indices
> and/or one with fewer mapping conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ES|QL queries can lead to node crashes due to Out Of Memory errors when:
** Multiple indices match the query pattern
** These indices have many conflicting field mappings
** Many of those fields are included in the request
+
These issues deplete heap memory, increasing the likelihood of OOM errors. (issue: {es-issue}111964[#111964], {es-issue}111358[#111358]).
+
To work around this issue, you have three options:
** Upgrade to 8.15.2 upon release
** Follow the instructions to
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/esql-kibana.html#esql-kibana-enable)[disable ES|QL] queries.
** Change the default data view in Discover to a smaller set of indices and/or one with fewer mapping conflicts.
```

@alex-spies Trying to reword for clarity, also the workarounds are very Discover centric not sure if that's intentional.

Reviewer 2: @leemthompo thanks for reviewing. What do you think about having "Downgrade to an earlier version" as one of the workarounds?

Reviewer: @tylerperk that also sounds reasonable

Author: Thanks, that's great! Applied to https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/112926
